1. for the very first we have to create one empty folder
2. then check for "git status" ( it doesn't show main or master branch)
  "git status is the command we are going to run everytime to check the status of repo"
3. because we haven't initialized our repositiory
4. so we have to run "git init" to initialize it
   " git init" is the command run only once at starting of repositiory.

5. after that we have to create files (touch textone.txt is the first empty file is created)
6.  then we need to follow the sequence 
    
    git add --> git commit --> git push

7. "git add ./ " and "git add." - it will add all the files 

8.  "git add textone.txt" it will add only single file.

9. now git commit --> we have to write it git commit -m "description of commit or msg"

    so here -m stands for message and in quotes need to write message

10. if we just write "git commit" or forgot to add -m it will open vim
     
     qa! or esc+:+Q and 

11. now if you haven't see the email or name u have to configure that using commands

12. git config --global user.name "username" // in my case it will because
      git config --global user.name "smita20BCS4643"

13. another is email so git config --global user.email "email@gmail.com"

     git config --global user.email "smitash3011@gmail.com"

14. we can use "git log" command to check the history of all work of commits
        git log --oneline (gives one line result)

15. to get back after using git log press "q" it will get back to pwd(working directory)


16. now the action and command which help to set and configure vs code editior
    git config --global core.editior "code --wait"

    this will help to configure vs code editior and wait for few seconds 


17. .gitignore we have to create this file 
   so "touch .gitignore" 
   this is used to keep safe all the infomartion regarding api keys and variables 

   .gitignore don't track files and folders when we mention it

   in our case before commiting or adding gitignore we have to mention the name

   so in tracking in red color it will show the names
   .env file
   but onces name of .env added in gitignore file it will become hide didn't show there. 


18. when we did config stored username and email how to see that file

   cat .gitconfig


19. Now we are going to learn about the branching 
     "git branch"  -- it will show the which branch are u working right now


20. how to create another branch nav-bar
git branch nav-bar -- it will create new branch named nav-bar

21. how to move from one branch to another
  git checkout nav-bar -- it will change the branch